---
layout: post
title: Meet Sass
subtitle: Sass Crash Course Summary
date: 2019-07-15
author: edith
header-img: "img/bg_web_design2.jpg"
catalog: true
tags: 
  - css_styling
  - webpage_design
---

## Resources

### Video tutorial: Learn Sass in 20 minutes

<p><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Zz6eOVaaelI" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></p>

### Online tutorial

[Online Tutorial](https://sass-lang.com/guide)

## Preprocessing: Install conversion plugin

Given that the browser itself cannot read `Sass`, you have to compile your `Sass` to `css`. This is where **Live Sass Compiler** comes into play. Find the plugin on your **VS Code** and get it installed. When install completes, you may find its icon at the lower-right corner. Each time you kick into Sass editing, click the icon to get it run.

Once you start tinkering with Sass, it will take your preprocessed Sass file and save it as a normal CSS fiel that you can use in your website.

## Nifty goodies Sass can do

### Minify coding efforts across different browsers

Just type `display: flex`. Sass immediately enables your page to best fill the available space at the cost of a minimum of difficulty.

```
display: flex;
```

This approach applies to all the other CSS properties that might not work cross browsers.

#### What is flex?

> The **Flexbox Layout** (Flexible Box) module aims at providing a more efficient way to lay out, align and distribute space among items in a container, even when their size is unknow and/or dynamic (thus the word 'flex'). 

Click [HERE](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/) if you like to expand your knowledge base around Flexbox.

### Variables

You no longer have to bother yourself changing the same properties for different elements one after another. Store information you want to reuse in variables. The following is an example.

#### Step 1: Declare a variable

Use the symbol `$` to make something a variable.

```
$primaryBtn : rgb(146, 56, 124);
$textColor: rgb(43, 43, 43);
```

#### Step 2: Reuse a variable all through the sass

```
header {
  ...
  button {
    background: $primaryBtn;
  }
}
.contact button {
    background: $primaryBtn;
} 
```

By doing so, you can change the background color by editing the variable alone, rather than going all through the file.

### Nesting

Have styling definitions nestled within ancestors, just like what they appear in `html` hierarchies. What if you'd like to define a focus or a hover? Not to worry. Precede the normal `css` expression with the symbol `&`, for example, `&:hover`, `&::after`, you get it.

```
header {
    
    background: lightblue;
    height: 20vh;
    display: flex;
    justify-content: center;
    align-items: center;
    color: $textColor;
    button {
        background: $primaryBtn;
        &:hover {
            background: red;
        }
        &::after {
            content: "Hello~"

        }
    }
}
```

### Segmenting

A `css` file normally is comprehensive of all the elments through your web page. With `sass`, you may divide your styling into as many segments as you wish. 

#### Build a segment

Define the necessary properties in a separate file. Note that its name should start with an underscore `_`, for example, `_header.scss`.

#### Import segments into the primary styling bank

`sass` knows how to go about the integration. This increases the readability of your styling files. 

```
@import './header';
```

### Mix-ins: Allowing functions

#### Step 1: Definition

Name your mix-in function and specify the properties.

```
@mixin flexCenter {
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
}
```

#### Step 2: Referenciing

@ include the mix-in function name to make quotations.

```
header {
  ...
  @include flexCenter();
  ...
}
...
.contact {
  @include flexCenter();
}
```

#### Step 3: Passing parameters

You may even pass aguments into a function to allow changes. 

1.  Use a variable which starts with a dollar sign, which is the parameter. And relate it to the property that shall change based on the argument you pass in.

    ```
    ...
    @mixin flexCenter($direction, $background) {
    ...
    flex-direction: $direction;
    background: $background
    ...
    }
    ...
    ```

2.  Now you may actually pass an actual argument into the function. Different values result in different stylings.
    ```
    header {
      @include flexCenter(column, red);
    }
    ...
    contact {
      @include flexCenter(row, green);
    }
    ```
     

### Extentions

Sass's extention capability enables elements to inherit all the properties of another element. Use `@extend` and specify the name of the element you want to make a copy, for example:

```
contact {
  @extend header;
}
```

If you want to overwrite a particular property among the existent ones, define it below the @extend line.

```
contact {
  @extend header;
  background: lightcoral;
}
```

### Do operations

This is super obvious from its name.

```
width: 100% - 20%;
```

