---
title: Day 46 (June 22nd)
catalog: true
tags: 
  - reading
  - cholera
permalink: /r_pp_d46.html
folder: prdpjd
summary: 
---

## Words

-   <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.glossary.pretentious}}">`pretentious`</b>
-   <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.glossary.undulant}}">`undulant`</b>
-   <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.glossary.vanity}}">`vanity`</b>



## Expressions

1.  A half-dozen students, among them Juvenal Urbino, <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.answers.46_a}}">`________(守候)`</b> for a time outside his residence on Avenue Eylau, and at the cafes where it was said he came <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.answers.46_a2}}">`________(一定/必须/风雨无阻地)`</b> and never came, and at last they sent a written request <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.answers.46_a3}}">`________(私人会晤)`</b> in the name of the angels of the Constitution of Rionegro.

2.  She also brought back a cosmetic case that was the latest thing in seductiveness, and she took it to parties at a time when the simple act of <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.answers.46_b}}">`________(在公共场合检查妆容)`</b> was considered indecent.

3.  And she <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.answers.46_c}}">`________(对某事有天分)`</b> for dealing with strangers that left her husband dumbfounded, and a mysterious talent for making herself understood in Spanish with anyone, anywhere.

4.  It was difficult to imagine anyone who could have <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.answers.46_d}}">`________(吸收/适应了巴黎的日常生活)`</b> with so much speed and so much joy, and who learned to love her memory of it despite the eternal rain.

5.  The child they had both longed for was born without incident <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.answers.46_e}}">`________(在水瓶座的月份)`</b> and baptized in honor of the grandfather who had died of cholera.

6.  The same booksellers agreed to mail him the most attractive <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.answers.46_f}}">`________(乐谱)`</b> from the Ricordi catalogue, chamber music above all, so that he could not maintain the <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.answers.46_f2}}">`________(当之无愧的)`</b> title earned by his father as the greatest friend of concerts in the city.

7.  As a consolation, Juvenal Urbino and Fermina Daza brought back the shared memory of a snowy afternoon when they were intrigued by a crowd that <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.answers.46_g}}">`________(经受住/顶住)`</b> the storm outside a small bookshop on the Boulevard des Capucines because Osca Wilde was inside.

8.  She bought only one hat from Madame Reboux, but on the other hand she filled the trunk with sprigs of artificial cherries, <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.answers.46_h}}">`________(梗/柄/茎)`</b> of all the felt flowers she could find, branches of ostrich plumes, crests of peacocks, tailfeathers of Asiatic roosters, entire pheasants, hummingbirds, and a countless variety of exotic birds preserved <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.answers.46_h2}}">`________(正在飞翔的、正在啼鸣的、正处于痛苦中的)`</b>: everything that had been used in the past twenty years to change the appearance of hats.

9.  She brought back a disturbing fragrance chosen from many at the perfume shop in the Bazar de la Charite, before the spring winds <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.answers.46_i}}">`________(将一切夷为平地、烧成灰烬)`</b>, but she used it only once because she did not recognize herself in the new scent.

10. Laferrière seemed less pretentious and voracious to her, but her wise decision was to buy her <b data-toggle="tooltip" data-original-title="{{site.data.answers.46_j}}">`________(她最喜欢的东西)`</b> in the secondhand shops, although her husband swore in dismay that it was corpses's clothing.
